.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt SRM 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm srm
.Nd securely delete files
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm 
.Op Fl h
.Op Fl n Ar number
.Op Fl r
.Op Fl v
.Op Fl V
.Ar files
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a simple secure file deletion tool. It overwrites the file with several
passes of random data before unlinking it. If no options are specified, Nm
defaults to three passes.
.Nm
supports the following options:
.Bl -tag -width .Ds
.It Fl h
Display a brief help message.
.It Fl n Ar number
Specify the number of times to overwrite each target with random data.
.It Fl r
Recursive mode. Delete any directories and all subdirectories underneath.
.It Fl v
Verbose mode. Displays a list of both files that failed to wipe and files that
were successfully wiped.
.It Fl V
Print version information.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
The exit values are standard
.Xr sysexits 3
values.
.Sh EXAMPLES
Wipe files 
.Pa foo 
and 
.Pa bar 
with three passes:
.Dl $ srm foo bar
Wipe files 
.Pa baz 
and 
.Pa quux
with ten passes:
.Dl $ srm -n 10 baz quux
Wipe all PGP keys, i.e. files with extension 
.Pa *.asc :
.Dl $ srm *.asc
Recursive deletes aren't implemented yet. A workaround is to use
.Nm
and 
.Xr find 1 , 
for example to delete all
.Pa *.pgp 
files:
.Dl $ find . -iname '*.pgp' -exec srm '{}' \;
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.Nm 
uses the standard 
.Xr err 3 
facilities to report any errors that occur.
.Sh SEE ALSO
The srm page on
.Lk http://www.tyrfingr.is/projects/srm/ "tyrfinger" .
.Sh STANDARDS
.Nm
conforms to
.St -ansiC .
.Sh AUTHORS
.Nm
was written by
.An "Kyle Isom" Aq Mt kyle@tyrfingr.is .
.Sh BUGS
None known. Report bugs to the author.
.Sh LICENSE
.Nm
is released under an ISC license.
